ILShakeFest font
Copyright 1995 Illinois Shakespeare Festival
---------------

The idea of a Folio Font:

This font is based on the First Folio of Shakespeare.  It was designed 
primarily from the main titles (there are several distinct differences 
between titles, text, quotes, character names, etc.).  It's a specialized 
font for specific uses, but I think you'll find it enjoyable to have 
available, particularly for creating the correct "feel" in an instantly 
recognizable way for marketing materials for Shakespeare plays or other items 
relating to the period.

The main structure of this font will work best for limited use (it's great 
for display work, like the titles of the plays).  In order to have a font 
that had some additional value, however, we added some characters to aid in 
its use for text.  Because it was expected that the use would be mostly for 
titles, it has a more oblique feel than most of the text in the folio and the
caps are a little fancy for straight text use (but close to the italics used 
for songs or character names).  It _does_ have enough available to work with 
some body text.

Keep in mind that you have to know how the letters are used in order to make 
this font work properly.  It would be totally impractical to take a 
manuscript and just select all and switch to ILShakeFest font (yes, that's 
the name of it).  The main problem you would have would be in the usage of 
the letter "s" which should have an entirely different look based on the 
position within the word, etc.

Scott Mann (a student at Illinois State University) did all the heavy lifting
on this font and created the bulk of it, while I added ligatures, alternate 
characters, and some refinements.

This should be considered a first version.  With your feedback, we will 
attempt to fine-tune and add for future releases.  Are there additional 
ligatures which would be useful?  Should we have a second, non-oblique font 
that would be used for straight text?  Are there other punctuation marks or 
symbols that are needed?  Please let us know.

This font is Freeware.  The Illinois Shakespeare Festival retains the rights 
to the font, but you may distribute and use it freely as long as it is not 
sold or altered and this "read me" file is included.

Why the name "ILShakeFest"?  Wouldn't "FolioFont" or "Shakespeare" have been 
more appropriate?  Probably.  But that's what you pay for a free font.  We 
get a little publicity.  Fair trade?

The font contains all upper and lower case letters, plus period, comma, 
colon, semi-colon, question-mark, parentheses, slash, hyphen and certain 
special characters. 

There are some special characters that I tried to place in easy-to-remember 
locations for key strokes, as follows:

Three variations of the letter "s" for lower-case use
1. The "s" that looks like a long flourish is the standard lc "s"
2. The "s" that looks like an "s" is "option-s"
3. The "s" that looks like an "f" that extends over the next letter is 
"Shift-option-s".
	This works particularly well when followed by "t" or "i".
	However, the "h" is too tall to work with that, so:
The "sh" that looks like "fh" is "option-h"
The "ct" with the little connecting flourish is "option-c"
There is also a alternate capital "A" with a leading flourish that is "option-a"

_____The use of the letter "s"______
This is a quick cheat, not meant to be authoritative (I haven't studied 
this), but to allow for a close approximation.
No need to worry about upper case.
For an "s" at the end of a word, use #2, above (this includes instances 
before an apostrophe, such as "is't".
For almost any other "s", use #1 if it's Title or italics, and use #3 if it's 
straight text.
The exception seems to be with the double-ess.  From my quick glance, I think 
if in title or italics, use "1,2" and if straight text, use "3,3"

So, it is possible to take a document, change the font to "ILShakeFest" and 
then use your word processor's search and replace function to:
1. Change all the "s" in the body text of the document from "s" to 
"Shift-option-s", and then
2. Change all instances of "s space" and "s apostrophe" to "option-s space" 
and "option-s apostrophe" respectively.

That should get you close.

A note about font types:  In both the Macintosh and Windows version, both 
Type 1 and Truetype versions are included.  Which to use?  If you are 
primarily printing to a non-postscript printer (ink-jets, etc.) and don't 
have ATM (Adobe Type Manager), you'll probably be happier with the Truetype. 
 If you're planning on doing any desk-top publishing and sending projects in 
electronic form to be printed by a professional printer, you should throw out 
all your Truetype fonts and try to only use Type 1 or 3 fonts, because the 
high-end output for print houses really doesn't like Truetype.  (I'm sure of 
this on Macintosh because I do a lot of DTP, but I'm not as confident of this 
information for Windows, 'cause I don't do windows.)

I'd love to hear your feedback, comments and suggestions.  Write to me at:
pguithe@oratmail.cfa.ilstu.edu
--Peter Guither, General Manager
The Illinois Shakespeare Festival
------------------------------------------------
Come visit the Festival!
Professional summer theatre in an open-air Elizabethan theatre on the 
beautiful grounds of Ewing Manor in Bloomington, Illinois.  Green show, 
museum exhibit, free concerts and much more.  Hotel packages available.

****The 1996 Season*****
"Twelfth Night"
"The Tempest"
"The Triumph of Love" by Pierre Carlet de Chamblain de Marivaux
June 20 - August 10.

THE ILLINOIS SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL
Campus Box 5700
Normal, IL  61790-5700
Tickets:  (309) 438-2535
Management Office:  (309) 438-7314
theatre@oratmail.cfa.ilstu.edu
http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/isf.html